hello and welcome to movies in five
minutes or less
this is a recap of the 1996 drama film
trainspotting
starring ewan mcgregor
warning spoilers ahead
26 year old mark renton lives with his
parents in edinburgh
he regularly partakes in drug use with
his friends docile and slow-minded spud
con artist sick boy clean-cut athlete
tommy and sociopath bagby
both beg b and tommy have decided not to
do heroin and are criticizing their
friends for their lifestyle choice
sick boy spud and renton are all heroin
addicts who spend their days shooting up
in their drug dealers flat
one day renton decides to give up heroin
he decides to employ sick boys method of
locking himself in a rented room with
enough food equipment and supplies to
endure the withdrawal
realizing he needs one last high to get
him through the night he breaks himself
out of his room and buys opium rectal
suppositories from a dealer
after this final hit renton returns to
the room to finish the process
he later goes to a nightclub with a gang
noticing that his sex drive has returned
renton eventually leaves with a young
woman named diane
after making love she refuses to sleep
in the same room as renton and forces
him to sleep on a sofa
in the morning renton realizes that
diane is in fact a 15 year old
schoolgirl who lives with her parents
diane threatens to report him to the
police if he does not continue the
relationship
tommy is later dumped by his girlfriend
lizzie
he gets sick boy spud and rent him to
join him on a walk in the scottish
highlands
the guys are reluctant believing they're
being punished by tommy for the hard
time he's receiving from lizzie
later sick boy spud and renton decide to
use heroin again and a broken-hearted
tommy asks to try it to see why they
like it so much despite renton's
reluctance
one day during a heroin-induced stupor
the gang are interrupted by allison who
is screaming hysterically because her
infant child has died from neglect
all are shell-shocked especially sick
boy who is implied to be the baby's
father
later renton sick boy and sputter caught
shoplifting
sick boy eludes the police but spud is
sent to prison whereas renton is put on
a drug intervention program and given
methadone he quickly relapses and nearly
dies of a heroin overdose
at a local emergency room renton is
brought out of his trip and his parents
pick him up
they decide to lock him in his childhood
bedroom and force him to go cold turkey
following a difficult withdrawal
punctuated by hallucinations renton is
released upon the condition of an hiv
test
despite years of sharing syringes with
other addicts renton tests negative
clean of heroin renton decides to visit
tommy who now is lost in his heroin
addiction and has contracted hiv on
diane's advice renton moves to london
and gets a job as a property letting
agent
he begins to enjoy his new life of
sobriety and corresponds with diane who
updates him on developments back home
after begbie is involved in an armed
robbery he turns up at renton's flat
asking for a place to hide out
sick boy who now sees himself as a
well-connected pimp and drug pusher also
shows up on renton's doorstep
renton's friends make his life more
miserable stealing from him and trashing
his flat
big b and sick boy later attacked two of
renton's clientele resulting in him
losing his job
the trio returns to edinburgh to avoid
police attention
they learn that tommy has died due to
aids-related toxoplasmosis
following the funeral they meet spud
who's been released from prison sick boy
then asks renton beg b and spud for help
in buying two kilograms of pure heroin
for four thousand pounds to later resell
at a higher price
renton is needed to supply the remaining
two thousand pounds asking price
after begbie threatens him renton
reluctantly covers the remaining cost
and the group returns to london
they meet the dealer in a hotel room and
after a purity check and a bit of
haggling they agree on 16 000 pounds
as they celebrate in a pub renton
suggests to spud that they steal the
money and run
sputt is too scared of bag b to consider
it
as bagby heads back to the table with
another round of pints he bumps into
another man and spills much of the beer
he bought when the man apologizes bigby
turns violent and smashes the man's face
with one of the glasses
realizing that he's probably matured
more than his friends renton decides to
leave them while taking the money
early next morning he wakes up before
anyone else and takes the money from
bagby leaving quietly
spud sees him leave but says nothing
renton gives him an affirmative nod
after begbie discovers the money is gone
he angrily destroys the hotel room
prompting the police to arrive and
arrest him while sick boy and spud flee
renton leaves 4 000 pounds in a safe
deposit box for spud and walks out into
his new life
in the final scene spud retrieves the
money rent and left for him
thanks for watching movies in five
minutes or less
don't forget to subscribe to our channel
till next time